Bodhidharma, the founder of Chan / Zen buddhism. The protector of dharma (the basic principles of cosmic or individual existence) – Bodhidharma. 

The Chinese called the blue-eyed with piercing looks, long beard, with an unrefined look,quick tempered, he was a big foreheaded voyager. A martial artist practioner who came from India specifically from South India and reached China. Some say he came from Persia. 

The story of Bodhidharma, the Indian founder of Chinese martial arts, is shrouded in myth and legend. Bodhidharma is revered as a master of various practices, including 'adithada,' 'kuthuvarsai,' and 'silmabam.’

He is saint who introduced these practices internationally. The Chinese call him “Damo”, while in Japan he is known as “Dharmo”. The name suggests a person with spiritual knowledge- Dharma, the protector of dharma, Bodhidharman.

The book, Yi Jin Jing was written in the 17th century. Bodhidharma is known to be the author of this book. It is a truly remarkable and impressive book that was passed between the Shaolin saints.

The Buddist book, Lankavatara sutra have stories and praises about Bodhidharman in it. The story of the Palava king, Bodhidharma is talked about in AD 547 by the Buddhist monastery records in Luoyang. 

The translator of the Mahanayasutras, Xuanzang’s records talk about a Buddhist sage who have traveled over mountains, crossing borders and after overcoming several setbacks, he has reached. The sunlight engraved on the statues of Buddha can be seen illuminating his face. The gems on the statue chimed as the wind hit it. Bodhidharma said, “this is the sound of the soul. There is no way or monastery that I haven’t traveled or stayed at. There is no sea or mountain that I haven’t crossed This sound is welcoming to me.” He held his hands up in oblation and kept looking at the statue in a meditative state. And so Bodhidharma stepped his foot with confidence in China. He held a steadfast resolve to impart his knowledge of martial arts and spiritual practices to the people of this new land. 

Bodhidharma has reached China learning and walking the ways that the other Siddhars such as Bogar. His stories are astounding. A story that is a combination of mysticism, Meditation, and Martial arts. Bodhidharma’s guru, Prajnatara’s path to Buddhism’s story, his first disciple, Huike’s story. The minute the guru asked Huike cut his right hand and gave it. Bodhidharma’s stories is full of surprises.

Let’s start the story from the Pallava kingdom. Kanchipuram was the capital of the Pallava dynasty that ruled from AD 205 to AD 897 and came after the Satavahana dynasty. The kindom was also called “Thondaimandalam”. The Pallava kingdom was ruled by capable rulers starting with Manhendravarma till Narasimhavarman . The meaning of the word “Pallava” is “arrow”. 

It was between the 5th and 6th century in the Pallave kindom, the birth of Bodhidharma occurred. He was the third son of the Pallava king, then ruler named Sugantha. As King Sugantha was getting ready to abdicate from his position as the ruler, he decided to make his third son, Bodhidharma the king. This enraged the elder brothers who decided to murder Bodhidharma. They tried to murder him several times. However, as Bodhidharma had been a practitioner of martial arts, archery, etc. since childhood, he was able to defend all their attacks and defeat them. But it was followed by a depression because his own brothers were trying to kill him. Thus he went to see King Sugantha who was bedridden. Bodhidharma looked at King Sugantha and said, “ I am leaving in search of an invaluable throne which you cannot give me, so don’t come looking for me”.

Thus, he left the castle and in the forest he meets a Buddhist monk. The name of the Buddhist monk is Prajnatara. He taught Bodhidharma the Buddhist ways. Buddha said everything is in your mind. Whatever you wish to be, you will be! Don’t search for peace outside, it will be inside you. Bodhidharma began meditating and followed Buddhism.
