Auther Gurukkal Dr. S Mahesh 


Gurukkal Dr. S Mahesh is an Indian Martial arts Guru, renowned for his expertise in this ancient Indian martial arts kalaripayattu. He is a fifth-generation Kalaripayattu Guru,
Who leads Agastyam Kalaripayattu, boasting a remarkable legacy of 127 years. Beyond martial arts, he is also a filmmaker, media personality, and writer, with a strong commitment to promoting Kalaripayattu as a foundation for a healthy lifestyle.


Kalari Gurukkal, Film Director, Founder of Agasthyam Kalari,  Co- PI of IKS, Media person, Writer, Yoga Expert, Self  Defence Expert.


Gurukkal Dr. S Mahesh is an Indian Martial arts Guru, renowned for his expertise in ancient Indian martial arts, kalaripayattu. He is a fifth-generation Kalaripayattu Guru,who leads Agastyam Kalaripayattu, boasting a remarkable legacy of 127 years. Beyond martial arts, he is also a filmmaker, media personality, and writer, with a strong commitment to promote Kalaripayattu as a foundation for a healthy lifestyle.



Gurukkal Dr S Mahesh is the son of Legendary Kalari master ( Thekkan Sampradayam) and Sidha Expert : Shri R Sanal Kumar Gurukkal. Mahesh Gurukkal, born in 1978, was initiated into Kalaripayattu at a very young age as his family had deep roots in Kalaripayattu. He is a fifth generation martial artist. His great grand father Shri. Krishnan was an extraordinary exponent of "Choondani Viral Marma vidya" (a technique to immobilise the opponent by pointing forefinger with yogic powers) and Krishnan master's son Ramakrishna (a yogi who was a staunch devotee of the Hindu God Subramanya) and Yogini Rugmini (a Buddhist nun) had also harnessed yogic powers through Kalari and yogic practices. Agasthyam kalari is retreat that is the abode of the 200-year-old southern Kalaripayattu and the ancient Kalari healing systems. Under the tutelage of seasoned and skilled gurus, the Kalari has moulded consummate martial artistes who practice their art with finesse. The Kalari attracts students from all over India and around the world.
